In this video, I'll show you a simple way
to have your application play audio files.
We'll use the Block04 application as
an example but I will demonstrate it
on my phone because you wouldn't be
able to hear the sound on the emulator.
The application is composed
of two buttons, 'Play' and
'Pause', and a Switch 'looping'.
If I click the Play button,
the music starts, and
if I click the Pause button,
the music is interrupted.
If I click Play again, the music
resumes up to the end of the file.
When the end of the file is reached,
the music is stopped.
Now if I click the 'looping' Switch on, and
I click Play, this time the music
will play to the end of the file.
When the end is reached,
the music starts over automatically
without requiring me to
hit the Play button again.
Start a new Android Studio project.
Name the application Block04.
Click Next, keep the API to Level 16.
Click Next, pick an empty activity,
Next and Finish.
Let's start by creating the beginning
of the graphical user interface.
Let's go to the activity_main.xml file and
first get rid of
the default TextView "hello world".
Then I drag the first button here.
That will be our button to trigger the
beginning of the music, to play the music.
Let's associate an action
with this button.
So OnClick, call the playMusic method.
Now let's add the second button right
below it, which is the pause button and
OnClick
it'll call the pauseMusic method.
Now let's go to the MainActivity.java
file in order to define these two methods.
If you remember from previous videos,
this method should have
a public void declaration.
The first one was playMusic and even
though I know that if playMusic is called,
it can only be because of the Play button.
I still need to specify a View parameter.
The second method is pauseMusic.
Now we need to add a resource
to our application,
to hold the music file
that we want to play.
I right-click on the app folder here,
select New,
Android resource directory and
in the Resource type, I choose raw.
I keep all the other default choices and
click OK.
This creates a new folder
here in the Resource folder.
In this folder, I copy my mp3 file,
so Copy that and Paste it here.
Now that this resource is
incorporated into my application,
I can use it using the MediaPlayer
class from the Android API.
I create a MediaPlayer object,
let's call it pianoMusic.
In the onCreate method I'll
initialize this object.
So pianoMusic,
I'll use the create method
from the MediaPlayer
to create a MediaPlayer associated
with resource that I can find in R.row,
and then the name of the file
without the extension.
That's 'piano'.
Once this is done,
it's really easy to play the music.
You just have to call the start method
on your player, so pianoMusic.start.
The pause is similar,
it's pianoMusic.pause.
But of course, we don't want the user
to click on pause if the music
is paused already, so we will only do
the pause thing if the music is playing.
If pianoMusic.isPlaying,
then I'll call the pianoMusic.pause.
Now let's see how this
sounds on the emulator.
I click Play and Pause,
the music is stopped.
Let's click Play again.
[MUSIC]
And it runs up to the end of the file.
The quality of the sound is not great
because it's on the emulator but
on a real device,
it will sound much nicer.
Now I will add the little switch
to let the user decide whether
the music should loop when it
reaches the end of the file.
Let's go back to the design view of
the user interface and grab a switch.
Let's put it here.
I change the label so it reads 'looping' and
let's change that to 'switch_looping'.
Now from the Java code,
I need to get a reference to
this Switch object,
switch_looping, I use
the findViewById method, as usual.
R.id.switch_looping.
Remember that you need to cast
that because findViewById returns
a generic View, not a specific switch.
Now that I have a reference to the switch,
I can associate a listener to it so that
when the user changes the value of the
switch from off to on, I can do something.
So switch_looping.setOnCheckedChangeListener.
Then I'll create an anonymous object
here onCheckedChangeListener.
I just need to implement
this method onCheckedChange.
So that means that the user flipped
the button and here with this boolean
here I can know whether the position
of the switch is on or off.
What I want to do is to change
the value of the isLooping,
a characteristic of the player, depending
on the value of the variable isChecked.
So playingMusic.setLooping.
If the looping switch is checked,
I want the piano music to loop, so
setLooping to isChecked and that's it.
Let's listen to the result
on the emulator.
If I click the Play
button without checking
the Looping switch, when the music
reaches the end of the file, it stops.
Now let's change the switch here so
looping is on.
If I play the music again-
[MUSIC]
When it reaches the end,
like now, it starts over
without requiring me to
press the Play button again.
In this video,
you've learned how to play an audio file.
You first create a raw folder in your
resource directory to hold your audio files
and then you create a MediaPlayer object
using the MediaPlayer.create method.
After that, you can use multiple methods
on this media players such as start,
pause, setLooping to control how
is your audio file playing